# picop

Minimal password storage and retrieval CLI written in Python. pico pico p!

## What it does

*Disclaimer: I am not a cyber security professional.*

`picop` stores encrypted passwords in the filesystem as [Fernet tokens](https://github.com/fernet/spec/) with a custom key generated by [scrypt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrypt) involving a salt (generated upon init) and a "super password" which is requested every time a password is accessed.

The code of `picop` is intentionally designed to be short so that:
- Someone can easily read it and understand what is going on in under 5 minutes
- It is easily maintainable
- I have a tiny project to work on for a few hours

## How it's designed

`picop` is designed to be short and contains the minimum number of features to be a usable password manager. Other features such as copying to clipboard can, however, be achieved through leveraging the command line interface.

The security of `picop` mainly relies on the super password. `picop` will not remember this password, and will instead ask for it every time it queries encrypted data. Without the super password, all data is lost, and no decrypted data is ever kept after the program finishes running. If you ever worry about forgetting the super password, consider storing it in a non-digital format.

## Usage

```bash
# Initialise picop
python3 picop.py init

# Add password under the name "test"
python3 picop.py add -n test

# Get the password under the name "test"
python3 picop.py get -n test

# List stored password names
python3 picop.py list

# Remove the password under the name "test"
python3 picop.py remove -n test
```

## Dependencies

```
# apt install python3
# pip3 install cryptography
```

## Installation

If you wish to have `picop` as a command instead of `python3 picop.py`, copy this file somewhere to your PATH and set it as executable:
```
$ cp picop.py /usr/bin/picop
$ chmod 755 /usr/bin/picop
```

## Advanced

Check `examples` directory for some examples of advanced usage of `picop`.
- `clipboard.sh`: Getting password, then copying it to clipboard
- `picop_ssh.sh`: Getting password from another machine which has the picop command installed, using SSH
